---
date: 2018-12-09 10:09:51 +0100
layout: recipe
category: recipe
subcategory: bakery

title: "Coconut crunchy granola"
tagline: "Almond, hazelnuts, coconut flakes and honey is all you need."
excerpt: "Paleo and gluten free crunchy granola"
keywords: "gluten free, granola, paleo, flourless, refined sugar less"
tags: [gluten free, grain gree, vegan]
cooking_time: 40 min
cover_image: 2018-12-15-granola-paleo-recipe.jpg
side_gallery:
  - 2018-12-15-chunky-granola-gluten-free.jpg
  - 2018-12-15-granola-sugar-free.jpg
  - 2018-12-15-granola-paleo.jpg


bottom_gallery:

outcome: |
---

There are a lot of granola recipes on this planet and it's sometimes difficult to choose our favourite. In my case, I like to keep things simple and I used only 5 main ingredients, which are probably already stored in your kitchen. There aren't any grains or cereals flours. You can customize it by adding cinnamon, dried figs, lemon zest or by putting some chocolate chips when cool. Easy to say, it's the perfect homemade gift for your friends and family all around the year. This quick and easy granola happens to be naturally gluten free, refined sugar free, but also vegan and paleo if you replace honey with maple syrup.

__Ingredients__

> - 60 g  / 2 oz almonds
> - 60 g / 2 oz hazelnuts
> - 100 g / 3,5 oz sugarless coconut flakes
> - 120 g / 4,2 oz almond flour
> - 100 g / 3,5 oz honey (or maple syrup for vegan version)
> - a pinch of salt
> - cinnamon (optional)

1. Preheat the oven to 160°C / 320°F.
2. Chop almond and hazelnuts in the size you prefer to crunch on.
3. Mix all ingredients in one bowl until uniform.
4. Line a baking tray with parchment paper and make a even layer of the granola dough. Make sure to leave some space here and there to let air go through.
5. Bake for 15 minutes, then move the granola with a wooden spoon leaving whole big chunks of it. Bake for an additional 10 minutes.
6. After these 25 minutes the granola will be still very soft, but don't worry, it's ready : it will become crunchy when cooled down.
7. Keep it in air-tight containers to make it last a couple of week.
